[Kaptain] air-gapped install (#4362)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kaptain/2.0.0/install/air-gapped-2.1/index.md

## Prerequisites

-   A DKP cluster with the following Platform applications enabled:

    - Istio
    - Knative (optional, if KServe is configured to work in `RawDeployment` mode)

-   [`kubectl`][kubectl] on your installation machine

-   For customers deploying in a multi-cluster environment (Enterprise): Ensure you have configured [Kaptain to authenticate with a Management Cluster][dex].

-   Ensure the following applications are enabled in Kommander:

    1. Use the existing Kommander configuration file, or initialize the default one:

		```bash
		dkp install kommander --init > kommander-config.yaml
		```

    1. Ensure the following applications are enabled in the config:

		```yaml
		apiVersion: config.kommander.mesosphere.io/v1alpha1
		kind: Installation
		apps:
		  ...
		  dex:
		  dex-k8s-authenticator:
		  kube-prometheus-stack:
		  istio:
		  knative:
		  minio-operator:
		  traefik:
		  nvidia:  # to enable GPU support
		  ...
		```

    1. Apply the new configuration to Kommander:

		```bash
		dkp install kommander --installer-config kommander-config.yaml
		```

> <!-- TODO: Reference doc for DKP, as commands are different depending on the installation and delete only this step or the whole "Ensure the following applications are enabled in Kommander:" part?-->

Author: @lukeogg @alembiewski 
Should we delete lines 32 to 64 and refer to this doc: https://docs.d2iq.com/dkp/kommander/2.1/install/configuration/ (I am not sure which document is the right one to reference here), making a wild guess: 
```suggestion
[Configure a Kommander installation](../../../../kommander/2.1/install/configuration) to include `dex`, `dex-k8s-authenticator`, `kube-prometheus-stack`, `istio`, `minio-operator`, `traefik`, `nvidia` and `knative` (Knative is optional if KServe is configured to work in `RawDeployment` mode).
```

  Review the [Kommander installation documentation][kommander-install] for more information.

<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>Starting from the 1.3 release, Spark Operator is no longer installed by default with Kaptain.</p>

In case you need to run Spark jobs on Kubernetes using Spark Operator, it needs to be installed separately.
Use the following instructions to install Spark Operator from Kommander Catalog for [DKP 2.x][install-spark-dkp2].

### Load the Docker images into your Docker registry

1.  Download the image bundle file:

>     - Download `kaptain_air_gapped.tar` that will contain the required artifacts to perform an air-gapped installation.

Author: @lukeogg @alembiewski Is this the tarball step you mention required to run the `dkp push chart [chartTarball]`?
```suggestion
    - Download `kaptain_air_gapped.tar` that will contain the required artifacts to perform an air-gapped installation. The kommander-image-bundle.tar tarball has the required artifacts.
```

1.  Ensure you set the `REGISTRY_URL` and `AIRGAPPED_TAR_FILE` variable appropriately, then use the following script to load the air-gapped image bundle:

   ```bash
   #!/usr/bin/env bash
   set -euo pipefail
   IFS=$'\n\t'

   readonly AIRGAPPED_TAR_FILE=${AIRGAPPED_TAR_FILE:-"kaptain-image-bundle.tar"}
   readonly REGISTRY_URL=${REGISTRY_URL#https://}

   docker load --input "${AIRGAPPED_TAR_FILE}"

   while read -r IMAGE; do
       echo "Processing ${IMAGE}"
       REGISTRY_IMAGE="$(echo "${IMAGE}" | sed -E "s@^(quay|gcr|ghcr|docker|k8s.gcr|nvcr).io|public.ecr.aws|mcr.microsoft.com@${REGISTRY_URL}@")"
       docker image tag "${IMAGE}" "${REGISTRY_IMAGE}"
       docker image push "${REGISTRY_IMAGE}"
   done < <(tar xfO "${AIRGAPPED_TAR_FILE}" "index.json" | grep -oP '(?<="io.containerd.image.name":").*?(?=",)')
   ```

   _Note: this script is slightly different than the Kommander load script and has different image registry filters._

   Based on the network latency between the environment of script execution, the Docker registry, and the disk speed, this can take a while to upload all the images to your image registry.

> <!-- 1.  Run other seed script -->

Author: @lukeogg, @alembiewski , you mentioned there are other "seed scripts" required for 2.1 air-gapped installation? Can you provide them here, please?

Reviewer: I think this is the correct script. It's just different in 2.2. (See Kommander in 2.1: https://docs.d2iq.com/dkp/kommander/2.1/install/air-gapped/#load-the-docker-images-into-your-docker-registry)

## Add Kaptain to your DKP Catalog Applications via CLI

If you installed DKP with Kaptain as a workspace application in the Kommander installation file, you do not need to create a Git Repository for Kaptain.

If you added Kaptain after installing DKP, you must make it available by creating a Git Repository. Use the CLI to create the GitRepository resource and add a new repository.

### Create a Git repository for Kaptain

> <!-- TODO: 1.  add a section for the helm install for DKP 2.1 -->

Author: @alembiewski @lukeogg is this the correct command?
```suggestion
dkp push chart [chartTarball]
```

Reviewer: `dkp push chart` is a DKP 2.2 command...

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Add Kaptain air-gapped for DKP 2.1
title: Add Kaptain to your DKP Catalog applications on air-gapped environments for DKP 2.1
menuWeight: 10
excerpt: Add Kaptain to your DKP Catalog applications on air-gapped environments for DKP 2.1
beta: false
enterprise: false
---

<p class="message--warning"><strong>WARNING: </strong>
You can deploy Kaptain to a cluster in a selected workspace. If you do not intend to deploy Kaptain to a certain cluster, you must switch the workspace you are deploying to or move that cluster to another workspace.
</p>

## DKP 2.1 air-gapped installation

Refer to [DKP install instructions][dkp_install], if you want to deploy Kaptain in a networked environment or to [DKP 2.2 air-gapped instructions][2.2_air] if you are deploying in DKP 2.2.

> Kaptain supports installation on an air-gapped (a.k.a. offline or private) DKP managed cluster. Before installing Kaptain, please follow the [air-gapped installation guide][konvoy-air-gap] to set up the air-gapped DKP managed cluster. The cluster admin is responsible for configuring the DKP cluster correctly and ensuring container images have been pre-loaded to the private registry before installing Kaptain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kaptain supports installation on an air-gapped (offline or private) DKP managed cluster. Before installing Kaptain, follow the [air-gapped installation guide][konvoy-air-gap] to set up the air-gapped DKP managed cluster. The cluster admin is responsible for configuring the DKP cluster correctly and ensuring container images have been pre-loaded to the private registry, before installing Kaptain.
```

-   Ensure the following applications are enabled in Kommander:

    1. Use the existing Kommander configuration file, or initialize the default one:

		```bash
		dkp install kommander --init > kommander-config.yaml
		```

    1. Ensure the following applications are enabled in the config:

		```yaml
		apiVersion: config.kommander.mesosphere.io/v1alpha1
		kind: Installation
		apps:
		  ...
		  dex:
		  dex-k8s-authenticator:
		  kube-prometheus-stack:
		  istio:
		  knative:
		  minio-operator:
		  traefik:
		  nvidia:  # to enable GPU support
		  ...
		```

    1. Apply the new configuration to Kommander:

		```bash
		dkp install kommander --installer-config kommander-config.yaml
		```

<!-- TODO: Reference doc for DKP, as commands are different depending on the installation and delete only this step or the whole "Ensure the following applications are enabled in Kommander:" part?-->

  Review the [Kommander installation documentation][kommander-install] for more information.

<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>Starting from the 1.3 release, Spark Operator is no longer installed by default with Kaptain.</p>

> In case you need to run Spark jobs on Kubernetes using Spark Operator, it needs to be installed separately.
> Use the following instructions to install Spark Operator from Kommander Catalog for [DKP 2.x][install-spark-dkp2].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need to run Spark jobs on Kubernetes using Spark Operator, you must install it separately. Use the following instructions to install Spark Operator from Kommander Catalog for [DKP 2.x][install-spark-dkp2].
```

### Load the Docker images into your Docker registry

1.  Download the image bundle file:

>     - Download `kaptain_air_gapped.tar` that will contain the required artifacts to perform an air-gapped installation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Download `kaptain-air-gapped-2.0.0.tar.gz` that will contain the required artifacts to perform an air-gapped installation.
```

>     - (Optional) Download the custom image artifacts `kaptain_air_gapped_cpu.tar` or `kaptain_air_gapped_gpu.tar` based on whether you need CPU or GPU for your workloads.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - (Optional) Download the custom image artifacts `kaptain-air-gapped-2.0.0_cpu.tar.gz` or `kaptain-air-gapped-2.0.0_gpu.tar.gz` based on whether you need CPU or GPU for your workloads.
```

1.  Place the bundle in a location where you can load and push the images to your private Docker registry.

1.  Ensure you set the `REGISTRY_URL` and `AIRGAPPED_TAR_FILE` variable appropriately, then use the following script to load the air-gapped image bundle:

   ```bash
   #!/usr/bin/env bash
   set -euo pipefail
   IFS=$'\n\t'

   readonly AIRGAPPED_TAR_FILE=${AIRGAPPED_TAR_FILE:-"kaptain-image-bundle.tar"}
   readonly REGISTRY_URL=${REGISTRY_URL#https://}

   docker load --input "${AIRGAPPED_TAR_FILE}"

   while read -r IMAGE; do
       echo "Processing ${IMAGE}"
       REGISTRY_IMAGE="$(echo "${IMAGE}" | sed -E "s@^(quay|gcr|ghcr|docker|k8s.gcr|nvcr).io|public.ecr.aws|mcr.microsoft.com@${REGISTRY_URL}@")"
       docker image tag "${IMAGE}" "${REGISTRY_IMAGE}"
       docker image push "${REGISTRY_IMAGE}"
   done < <(tar xfO "${AIRGAPPED_TAR_FILE}" "index.json" | grep -oP '(?<="io.containerd.image.name":").*?(?=",)')
   ```

>    _Note: this script is slightly different than the Kommander load script and has different image registry filters._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: this script is slightly different than the Kommander load script and has different image registry filters.
```

   Based on the network latency between the environment of script execution, the Docker registry, and the disk speed, this can take a while to upload all the images to your image registry.

### Install Kaptain using helm

> 

Reviewer 2: This should be a procedure with numbered steps.

> Download the kaptain-2.0.0.tgz chart archive from the link obtained from support.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Download the `kaptain-2.0.0.tgz` chart archive from the link obtained from support.
```

Add the following to a file named 'values.yaml' to pass to the helm install with the following contents:

```yaml
ingress:
  kubeflowIngressGatewayServiceAnnotations:
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-internal: "true"
```

Use helm to install kaptain to your airgapped cluster.

```bash

> helm install kaptain kaptain-2.0.0.tgz -values values.yaml

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
helm install kaptain kaptain-2.0.0.tgz --values values.yaml
```

```

> You may need to specify `--kubecofnig=my-air-gap-cluster.conf` for the install.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You may need to specify `--kubeconfig=my-air-gap-cluster.conf` for the install.
```
